Modify quickstart to use PromptQL instead of GraphQL (#1)
hasura/promptql-docs: docs/quickstart.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 0
sidebar_label: Quickstart
description:
  "Learn how to set up and deploy PromptQL. This guide covers installing prerequisites, configuring API keys, running
  PromptQL locally, and deploying to Hasura DDN."
keywords:
  - promptql
  - hasura ddn
  - quickstart
  - getting started
  - guide
  - quickstart
sidebar_class_name: quickstart-icon
---

import Prereqs from "@site/docs/_prereqs.mdx";
import Thumbnail from "@site/src/components/Thumbnail";

# Quickstart with PromptQL

> In this getting started guide, you’ll get hands on experience with PromptQL. In a few steps, you can have PromptQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this getting started guide, you'll get hands on experience with PromptQL. In a few steps, you can have PromptQL
```

This has been popping up a fair amount lately and haven't changed them all when they crop up but seems some characters aren't the correct ones and gets marked as an error for me. Sometimes this char is used and sometimes not. Maybe our settings or regions are different maybe. 

Was: U+2019 : RIGHT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK {single comma quotation mark}
Replaced with: U+0027 : APOSTROPHE {single quote; APL quote}

running locally, connected to a sample dataset.

By the end of the guide, you'll have deployed your project and created an AI agent that can take action on a user's
behalf.

> 

Reviewer: After going through the guide I feel like I am very much in the dark about what's happening / being built and it reduces my understanding. I think it would greatly benefit from a sentence here about what this is. 

- Using Hasura DDN to give PromptQL an IMDB dataset of movies, actors, etc... supplied in a PostgreSQL database in order to chat with it. 
- Adding a function in Typescript and Node.js to be able to rent movies directly through the PromptQL chat.

<Prereqs />

## Build your First PromptQL app

### Step 1. Authenticate your CLI

```sh title="Before you can create a new Hasura DDN project, you need to authenticate your CLI:"
ddn auth login
```

This will launch a browser window prompting you to log in or sign up for Hasura Cloud. After you log in, the CLI will
acknowledge your login, giving you access to Hasura Cloud resources.

### Step 2. Scaffold out a new local project

```sh title="Next, create a new local project:"
ddn supergraph init imdb-promptflix --with-promptql && cd imdb-promptflix
```

> Once you move into this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either

Reviewer: Just because the user is already there:
```suggestion
Now that you're in this directory, you'll see your project scaffolded out for you. You can view the structure by either
```

running `ls` in your terminal, or by opening the directory in your preferred editor.

### Step 3. Initialize your PostgreSQL connector

```sh title="In your project directory, run:"
ddn connector init imdb -i
```

> From the dropdown, select `hasura/postgres` (you can type to filter the list). Then, enter the following connection URI:

Reviewer: Just to give the user an idea of what they're doing. 
```suggestion
From the dropdown, select `hasura/postgres` (you can type to filter the list). Then, enter the following connection URI to an existing PostgreSQL database of IMDB data:
```

```plaintext
postgresql://read_only:npg_1nLZu7MKkwlN@ep-bold-bush-835547-pooler.us-west-2.aws.neon.tech/promptql-imdb-poc?sslmode=require
```

You can press `ENTER` to advance through the remaining prompts.

### Step 4. Introspect the PostgreSQL database

```sh title="Next, use the CLI to introspect your PostgreSQL database:"
ddn connector introspect imdb
```

After running this, you should see a representation of your database's schema in the
`app/connector/imdb/configuration.json` file; you can view this using `cat` or open the file in your editor.

### Step 5. Track your tables

Based on our sample database, a SQL schema will be generated. Let's track all the models to get started quickly.

```sh title="Run the following command:"
ddn model add imdb "*"
```

> Open the `app/metadata` directory. You’ll find Hasura Metadata Language (HML) files for each table in your database.  
> In this case, there’s only one: `movies`.

Reviewer: Replacing quotes with apostrophes
```suggestion
Open the `app/metadata` directory. You'll find Hasura Metadata Language (HML) files for each table in your database.  
In this case, there's only one: `movies`.
```

### Step 6. Create a new build

```sh title="To create a local build, run:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

The build is stored as a set of JSON files in `engine/build`.

### Step 7. Start your local services

```sh title="Start your local Hasura DDN Engine and PostgreSQL connector:"
ddn run docker-start
```

Your terminal will be taken over by logs for the different services.

## Talk to your data

### Step 1. Open the PromptQL Playground

```sh title="In another terminal, run:"
ddn console --local
```

### Step 2. Ask questions about your dataset

The console is a web app hosted at console.hasura.io that connects to your local PromptQL API and data sources. Your
data is processed in the DDN PromptQL runtime but isn't persisted externally.

Head over to the console and ask a few questions about your data.

```plaintext title="For example:"
Hi, what are some questions you can answer?
```

PromptQL will respond with information about the dataset and make suggestions for your first query on the data!

:::info Try it out

Go ahead and ask a question! In the next steps, we'll take a deeper look at interacting with the data.

:::

## Act on your data

### Step 1. Create a command

> While it's great that we can ask questions about the data set, what if the application could take action on our behalf?
> We can easily do this by adding custom business logic using one of our
> [lambda connectors](/business-logic/overview.mdx). In the example below, we'll use TypeScript.

Reviewer: Some more clear context for the user.
```suggestion
While it's great that we can ask questions about the data set, what if the application could take action on our behalf?
Such as rent a movie for us? We can easily do this by adding custom business logic using one of our
[lambda connectors](/business-logic/overview.mdx). In the example below, we'll use TypeScript.
```

```sh title="Like before, let's initialize this connector:"
ddn connector init promptflix -i
```

From the list of choices, select `hasura/nodejs`. Like with the PostgreSQL connector, the CLI will scaffold out a set of

> configuration files, including a file called `functions.ts` — this is where we'll add our logic so the application can

Reviewer: I think it will help the user to know where to find this. 
```suggestion
configuration files, including a file called `app/connector/promptflix/functions.ts` — this is where we'll add our logic so the application can
```

/*
 * This interface defines the structure of the response object returned by the
 * function that rents a movie. It includes a success status and a message.
 * The success status is a boolean indicating whether the operation was
 * successful or not.
 */
interface RentMovieResponse {
  success: boolean;
  message: string;
}

/*
 * PromptFlix - A movie rental service
 *
 * @param {string} seriesTitle - The title of the movie series to rent
 * @returns {RentMovieResponse} - The response object containing success status and message
 */
export function rentSingleMovieBySeriesTitle(seriesTitle: string): RentMovieResponse {
  console.log(`Renting movie series: ${seriesTitle}`);
  return {
    success: true,
    message: `Successfully rented the movie series: ${seriesTitle}`,
  };
}
```

This function simulates the action of renting a movie on behalf of a user. The JSDoc comments aid in providing context
to the underlying LLM so that the application knows how to use the function.

```sh title="Introspect your connector:"
ddn connector introspect promptflix
```

```sh title="Add your function as a command:"
ddn command add promptflix "*"
```

> Before we create a new build, let's add a description to our command.

Reviewer: Helping the user find this file. 
```suggestion
Before we create a new build, let's add a description to the metadata for our command located in `app/metadata/rent_single_movie_by_series_title.hml`
```

  outputType: rent_movie_response!
  arguments:
    - name: series_title
      type: String!
  source:
    dataConnectorName: promptflix
    dataConnectorCommand:
      procedure: rentSingleMovieBySeriesTitle
    argumentMapping:
      series_title: seriesTitle
  graphql:
    rootFieldName: rent_single_movie_by_series_title
    rootFieldKind: Mutation
```

```sh title="Create a new build:"
ddn supergraph build local
```

```sh title="Bring your services down with CTRL+C and start them back up:"
ddn run docker-start
```

### Step 2. Approve an action

```plaintext title="From the PromptQL playground, ask the following question:"
I really like Apollo 13; can you recommend a single movie with the same actors that is a historical story?
```

PromptQL will analyze the dataset by classifying movies and will suggest Saving Private Ryan. Likely, it will also ask
if you'd like to rent it. Answer `yes` and you'll then be prompted to either `Deny` or `Approve` the action.

If you click `Approve`, PromptQL will confirm that the rental was successful! 🍿

## Deploy and share your project

> ### Step 1. Crete a new cloud build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1. Create a new cloud build
```

Until this point, we've been developing locally. However, we can easily create a cloud build of our project and then
share it with others.

```sh title="Run the following from your project's directory:"
ddn supergraph build create
```

The CLI will respond with information about your new build.

### Step 2. Share your project

You can visit the cloud project's console and share your new PromptQL app!

<Thumbnail src="/img/get-started/share-project.png" alt="Share your app" width="1000px" />

Users with any access level, including “Read only” can access your PromptQL app. Read only users cannot modify your
project or invite additional users.

> You can also choose “Request Access” so that anyone who arrives at the project URL can request access.

Reviewer: Should we have a next steps section here?

Author: Right now this is meant to be the CTA (as it is in the existing PromptQL docs). But, we should decide on a strategic path forward after discussing with other teams.
